# Anticipating-New-customer-s-purchases
## Thesis
This report is submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirement for the degree of Master of Science in 7COM1075 Data Science and Analytics at the University of Hertfordshire (UH)

As more and more people are inclined towards purchasing from e-commerce stores, causing an increase in e-commerce platforms, it is becoming essential for eCommerce organisations to build up strategies to survive the competition. Effective Marketing plays a key role for companies in retaining customers and increasing overall sales volume. However, there's no one-size-fits-all regarding effective marketing, and different strategies will appeal to different customers. Companies segment customers into similar subsets based on their purchasing habits to efficiently develop effective marketing strategies that appeal to different types of customers to deal with this heterogeneity. However, since clustering algorithms tend to be non-parametric, they need to be re-run for every new customer unless a parametric model is developed to learn the mapping between customer purchasing habits and their respective clusters. This study aims to segment customers into clusters using non-parametric k-means clustering and train and validate multiple parametric machine learning models to predict the segments for future customers of an e-commerce company in Pakistan. Validation results show that the Random Forest classifier produced the highest weighted average precision, followed by gradient boosting and decision trees. An ensemble model based on the results of the three best models was also implemented; it was predicted with a precision of 98.75%, which is greater than any of the three classifiers and is very satisfactory. Since forward runs of a trained classifier are much faster than re-segmenting customers, this method also allows companies to reap the benefits of customer segmentation for future customers.
